# Semantics and Content

## Representations

### Representation Metadata
* media-type = token "/" token *( OWS ";" OWS parameter)
* text/html;charset=utf-8
* charset indicates the encoding scheme
* Content-Type = media-type
* Content-Type: text/html; charset=ISO-8859-4
* Content-Encoding: gzip
* Content-Language: en

## Request Methods

* GET - Transfer the current representation of the target source.
* HEAD - same as GET, but only transfer the status line and header section.
* POST - perfomr resource-specific processing on the request payload.
* PUT - replace all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
* PATCH - replace a specific representation of the target resource with the request payload.
* DELETE - remove all current representations of the target resource.
* CONNECT - describe the communication options for the target resource.
* TRACE - perform a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.

* GET -> a client can alter the semantics of the GET to only transfering some parts of the representation. Cacheable
* HEAD -> This method can be used for obtaining metadata about the selected representation without transferring the representation data and is often used for testing hypertext links for validity, accessibility, and recent modification.
* POST -> block of data, html form, 201 - Created.

* READ STATUS CODES BEFORE IMPLEMENTING!

* 1xxx -> Informational, 2xxx -> Successful, 3xx -> Redirection, 4xx -> Client Error, 5xx -> Server Error.

* Look at Dates Configuration.

### Request Header Fields
* Cache-Control, Expect, Host, Max-Forwards, Pragma, Range, TE