# Mesage Syntax and Routing

## Key Words for RFC-723/0-5

MUST - absolute requirement of the specification

MUST NOT - absolute prohibition of the specification

SHOULD - mean that there
         may exist valid reasons in particular circumstances to ignore a
         particular item, but the full implications must be understood and
         carefully weighed before choosing a different course.

SHOULD NOT - This phrase, or the phrase "NOT RECOMMENDED" mean that
             there may exist valid reasons in particular circumstances when the
             particular behavior is acceptable or even useful, but the full
             implications should be understood and the case carefully weighed
             before implementing any behavior described with this label.

MAY - This word, or the adjective "OPTIONAL", mean that an item is
             truly optional. One vendor may choose to include the item because a
             particular marketplace requires it or because the vendor feels that
             it enhances the product while another vendor may omit the same item.
             An implementation which does not include a particular option MUST be
             prepared to interoperate with another implementation which does
             include the option, though perhaps with reduced functionality. In the
             same vein an implementation which does include a particular option
             MUST be prepared to interoperate with another implementation which
             does not include the option (except, of course, for the feature the
             option provides.)

## HTTP Breakdown
* client send http request to a server in the form of request message, starting with reuqest-line (method=token, URI and protocol version)
followed by header fields with request modifiers, client information and representation metadata, empty line to indicate the end of the header section, and finally a mesage body containing the payload body.
each esponse comes with a statuc line, possibly followed by header files containing server information, resource metadata and representation metadata.

## EXAMPLE:
URL = "http://www.example.com/test.txt"
* **Client Request:**
GET /hello.txt HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: curl/7.16.3 libcurl/7.16.3 OpenSSL/0.9.71 zlib/1.2.3
* **Server Response:**
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 27 Jul 2009 12:28:53 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Wed, 22 Jul 2009 19:15:56 GMT
ETag: "34aa387-d-1568eb00"
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 51
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/plain
Hello World! My payload includes a trailing CRLF.

## Caches
* local store of previous response messages and the subsystem that controls its message storage, retrieval and deletion.
reduces response times and network bandwidth consumption.
acts as a tunnel.
if one has cached response, the req/res chain is shortened.
more of that will be touched in RFC 7234.

## Protocol Versioning
* HTTP-version = HTTP-name "/" DIGIT "." DIGIT
* HTTP-name = %x48.54.54.50 ; "HTTP", case-sensitive
* Resulting in -> HTTP/1.1 -> CONST!
have to send it in the client request.

## Message Format

### Start Line
* a sender MUST NOT send whitespace between the start-line and the first header field, if sends -> reject or consume each whitespace preceded line without further processing of it, need to be generic about possibly getting whitespace from some user-agents.
* start-line = request-line(by client) / status-line(by server).
* SP = Space
* request-line = method-token SP request-target SP HTTP-version CRLF
* if a server returns status code 501 (not implemented) -> the server probably recieved a method longer than any that it implements.
* status-line = HTTP-version SP status-code SP reason-phrase CRLF
* statuc-code = 3DIGIT | reason-phrase  = *( HTAB / SP / VCHAR / obs-text )

### Header Fields
*  each header field consists of a case-insensitive field name followed by a colon,
* field-name ":" OWS field-value OWS(optional whitespace)
* send header fields is better in order that we send control data first, such as Host on requests and Date on responses
* a recipient MAY combine multiple header fields with the same name into one "field-name: field-value" pair.

### Message Body
* carries the payload of request or response.
* message body is identical to payload body unless transfer coding has been applied -> Transfer-Encoding = gzip, chunked - for example.
* message-body = *OCTET -> can be empty/text filled/binary data for image, video, etc..
* all 1xx, 204, 304 responses do not include message-body (even not empty value).
* Content-Length = 1*DIGIT
* A sender MUST NOT send a Content-Length header field in any message that contains a Transfer-Encoding header field, A user agent SHOULD send a Content-Length in a request message when no Transfer-Encoding is sent and the request method defines a meaning for an enclosed payload body -> becareful about implementing it in code (there might be some more validators for this subject other than the ones mentioned above...).
* If a message is received that has multiple Content-Length header fields with field-values consisting of the same decimal value, or a single Content-Length header field with a field value containing a list of identical decimal values (e.g., "Content-Length: 42, 42"), indicating that duplicate Content-Length header fields have been generated or combined by an upstream message processor, then the recipient MUST either reject the message as invalid or replace the duplicated field-values with a single valid Content-Length field containing that decimal value prior to determining the message body length or forwarding the message.

### Handling Incomplete Messages
* a client that recieves an incomplete response MUST record the mesage as incomplete, cache requirements for incomplete responses are in RFC7234.
* If a response terminates in the middle of the header section (before the empty line is received) and the status code might rely on header fields to convey the full meaning of the response, then the client cannot assume that meaning has been conveyed; the client might need to repeat the request in order to determine what action to take next.

## Transfer Codings
* transfer-coding = "chunked" ;
                    / "compress" ;
                    / "deflate" ;
                    / "gzip" ;
                    / transfer-extension
transfer-extension = token *( OWS ";" OWS transfer-parameter )

### Chunked Transfer Coding
* the chunked transfer wraps the payload body in order to transfer it as a series of chunks.
* the reciever MUST be able to parse and decode the chunked transfer coding.
* hunked-body   = *chunk
                      last-chunk
                      trailer-part
                      CRLF

     chunk          = chunk-size [ chunk-ext ] CRLF
                      chunk-data CRLF
     chunk-size     = 1*HEXDIG
     last-chunk     = 1*("0") [ chunk-ext ] CRLF

     chunk-data     = 1*OCTET ; a sequence of chunk-size octets
* trailer-part = *( header-field CRLF ) -> at the end of the chunk, can be empty.
* decoding chunks in 4.1.3
* consider adding compressing methods in 4.2.

## Message Routing
### Request Target
* important notes in 5.3.

## Host
* after start-line, we need to add host -> Host: www.example.org, MUST send even if its in absolute-from.